.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2024 Craig Small <csmall@dropbear.xyz>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2023 Jim Warner <james.warner@comcast.net>
.\" Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Sami Kerola <kerolasa@iki.fi>
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2003 Albert Cahalan
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.TH KILL 1 2023-12-27 procps-ng
.SH NAME
kill \- send a signal to a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kill
.RI [ option " .\|.\|.\&]
.IR pid " .\|.\|."
.SH DESCRIPTION
The default signal for kill is TERM.  Use
.B \-l
or
.B \-L
to list available signals.  Particularly useful signals include HUP,
INT, KILL, STOP, CONT, and 0.  Alternate signals may be specified in
three ways:
.BR \-9 ", " \-SIGKILL
or
.BR \-KILL .
Negative PID values may be used to choose whole process groups; see
the PGID column in ps command output.  A PID of
.B \-1
is special; it indicates all processes except the kill process itself
and init.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B <pid> [.\|.\|.]
Send signal to every <pid> listed.
.TP
.B \-<signal>
.TQ
.B \-s <signal>
.TQ
.B \-\-signal <signal>
Specify the
.B signal
to be sent.  The signal can be specified by using name or number.
The behavior of signals is explained in
.BR signal (7)
manual page.
In addition, if \fIsignal\fR is zero, no signal is sent, but existence and permission checks are still performed; this can be used to check for the existence of a process ID or process group ID that the caller is permitted to signal.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-queue \fIvalue\fP
Use
.BR sigqueue (3)
rather than
.BR kill (2)
and the value argument is used to specify
an integer to be sent with the signal. If the receiving process has
installed a handler for this signal using the SA_SIGINFO flag to
.BR sigaction (2),
then it can obtain this data via the si_value field of the
siginfo_t structure.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\fR [\fIsignal\fR]
List signal names.  This option has optional argument, which
will convert signal number to signal name, or other way round.
.TP
.BR \-L , \ \-\-table
List signal names in a nice table.
.SH NOTES
Your shell (command line interpreter) may have a built-in kill
command.  You may need to run the command described here as /bin/kill
to solve the conflict.
.PP
If you use negative PID values, you will need to specify a signal as well so that
.B kill
knows if the option is for the PID or the signal number. For example, issuing
the command with the single option \fB\-9\fR it is not clear if you
mean signal 9 (SIGKILL) or process group 9.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B kill \-9 \-1
Kill all processes you can kill.
.TP
.B kill \-l 11
Translate number 11 into a signal name.
.TP
.B kill -L
List the available signal choices in a nice table.
.TP
.B kill 123 543 2341 3453
Send the default signal, SIGTERM, to all those processes.
.TP
.B kill -SIGTERM -123
Send the signal SIGTERM to process group 123. The signal name or number is
required if specifying process groups with a negative PID.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR kill (2),
.BR killall (1),
.BR nice (1),
.BR pkill (1),
.BR renice (1),
.BR signal (7),
.BR sigqueue (3),
.BR skill (1)
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please send bug reports to
.MT procps@freelists.org
.ME .
