.\" (C) Copyright 2017 Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(LGPL_2.1+)
.\" This manual is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PROCPS_PIDS_SORT 3 2017-01-05 "libproc-2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
procps_pids_sort \-
Sort process information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <proc/procps.h>
.sp
.BI "pids_stack **procps_pids_sort(struct pids_info *" info ", struct pids_stack *" stacks "[], int " numstacked ", enum pids_item " sortitem ", enum pids_sort_order " order ");"

.sp
Link with \fI\-lprocps\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBprocps_pids_sort\fR sorts the given \fIstacks\fR stack of process
information and sorts it by the given \fIsortitem\fR. \fInumstacked\fR
must be the length of the \fIstacks\fR array and all the stacks in the
list must be homogenous (of equal length and content).

The stacks value can be obtained by a previous call of
.BR procps_pids_reap (3)
or
.BR procps_pids_select (3)
and then accessing the \fIstacks\fR member from that structure.

\fIorder\fR can be either PIDS_SORT_ASCEND or PIDS_SORT_DESCEND.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns the sorted stack on success or NULL on failure.

.SH VERSIONS
.B procps_pids_sort()
first appeared in libproc-2 version 0.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libproc (3),
.BR procps_pids_new (3),
.BR procps_pids_reap (3),
.BR procps_pids_select (3),
.BR proc (5).
