.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(LGPL_2.1+)
.\" This manual is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PROCPS_PIDS_NEW 3 2016-04-18 "libproc-2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
procps_pids_new \-
Create a PID information structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <proc/procps.h>
.sp
.BI "int procps_pids_new(struct procps_pidsinfo **" info ", int " maxitems ", enum pids_item *" items ");"
.sp
Link with \fI\-lprocps\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR procps_pids_new ()
creates a new PID information structure that be used in subsequent calls to
.BR procps_pids_read_open (3),
.BR procps_pids_reset (3),
.BR procps_pids_sort (3).
functions. The pointer to \fIinfo\fR will have memory allocated and a structure
created.

\fIitems\fR is an array of enums up to \fImaxitems\fR long that selects what
information about the processed will be stored. \fImaxitems\fR is used to
allocate memory and must be at least the length of \fIitems\fR but can be more.
For information about what \fIitems\fR can contain, see the \fBPID ITEMS\fR
section in
.BR libproc (3).

Once the structure is no longer required,
.BR procps_pids_unref (3)
should be used to free it.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns 0 on success and one of negative values below
on failure.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
One of the given parameters is incorrect.
.TP
.B -ENOMEM
Unable to allocate memory for the structure.

.SH VERSIONS
.B procps_pids_new()
first appeared in libproc-2 version 0.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libproc (3),
.BR procps_pids_read_open (3),
.BR procps_pids_reset (3),
.BR procps_pids_sort (3),
.BR procps_pids_unref (3),
.BR proc (5).
