.\" (C) Copyright 2017 Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(LGPL_2.1+)
.\" This manual is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PROCPS_PIDS_REF 3 2017-01-05 "libproc-2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
procps_pids_ref \-
Increment reference count for pids structure.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <proc/procps.h>
.sp
.BI "int procps_pids_ref(struct pids_info *" info ");"
.sp
Link with \fI\-lprocps\fP.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR procps_pids_ref ()
Will increment the reference count for the \fBpids_info\fR structure that was
created with
.BR procps_pids_new (3).
The reference count is used by
.BR procps_pids_unref (3)
to determine when to de-allocate memort used by this structure.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The function returns the updated reference count on success
and one of negative values below on failure.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
One of the given parameters is incorrect.

.SH VERSIONS
.B procps_pids_ref()
first appeared in libproc-2 version 0.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libproc (3),
.BR procps_pids_new (3),
.BR procps_pids_unref (3),
.BR proc (5).
