.\" (C) Copyright 2016 Craig Small <csmall@enc.com.au>
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(LGPL_2.1+)
.\" This manual is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH PROCPS_uptime_sprint_SPRINT 3 2016-04-16 "libproc-2"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
procps_uptime_sprint \-
provide the uptime and idle time in seconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <proc/procps.h>
.sp
.B char procps_uptime_sprint(void);
.br
.B char procps_uptime_sprint_short(void);
.sp
Link with \fI\-lprocps\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions
.BR procps_uptime_sprint ()
and
.BR procps_uptime_sprint_short ()
return a string from a statically allocated buffer which displays uptime
and other system statistics. This format is similar to
.BR w (1)

.SH RETURN VALUE
Both functions return a formatted string on success and NULL on failure.
.PP
.B procps_uptime_sprint
returns a string displaying the uptime, number of users and load average.
.PP
.B procps_uptime_sprint_short
returns a string displaying the uptime only.

.SH VERSIONS
.B procps_uptime_sprint()
and
.B procps_uptime_sprint_short()
first appeared in libproc-2 version 0.0.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fopen (3),
.BR procps_loadavg (3),
.BR procps_uptime (3),
.BR proc (5).
